Know it's time that we refactor our arrest the API for refactoring process.
We're going to be doing a couple of things.
One of those things with the exception handling and the other one is of course logging the actions that
our users take on our risk API and other than that we're going to be implementing best practices in
our API.
So we're going to be making it more modular and more useful and more maintainable in the future.
To do that I'm going to start by trying to break our API and to do that I'm going to crash one of our
end points and that end point is going to be put and point which is this one and this endpoint as you
notice we're checking for null and if the object that we're going to update is now then we're simply
not updating and returning a dummy product.
But let's assume for a second that we're not checking for null and our API just crashes and at least
we're assuming that it's going to crash.
So let's make it crash and see what's going on behind the scenes.
To do that I'm going to comment out these lines.
I'll just leave the find method and of course we should return something.
And don't return actually can be the one that we're saving here.
All right
with this method to see what's going to happen let's run our application and make a request.
Our application is starting up now and we're almost there.
Here we go.
Our application is up or running.
So let's go to Firefox and make a request.
All right.
I'm going to open up our resk client right here.
And I'm going to be making a put request.
And in that request I'm going to be using this endpoint which was again if we go back it was API slash
products slash ID the idea that the product that we're going to update and of course the product object
in the request body.
All right.
So let's right to break our API for doing that.
I'm of course going to be adding our heather and the header is going to be Content-Type and well you're
going to be applications like Jason I'll hit.
OK.
And in our requests body I'm going to just say I will be providing an empty Jaison.
All right.
Let's make the requests and see what's going on.
Here we go.
There you see a 500 it response code which is the internal so rare.
Basically let's take out the response body with the highlight in the highlight as you can see where
is the a.
Internal Server.
But actually what was happening as we received a null pointer exception to see how bad the crash is.
Let's switch back to our application Oh as you can see we have a ton of stack trace arms tight race
doesn't look good.
As you can see we have a null pointer exception.
It basically says Now what was not here is the product that we're going to update because the find one
method of the product repository couldn't find the product that we're going to update.
So when it tried to say our product with that Null Object Of course it wrote us an error.
There's long lists of track traces of null pointer exception to get rid of that.
Of course we have several options.
We can check the object for now and we can try and catch the statement but about all these options we
have some other cool option from spring and that is the advice control read.
Controller advisors are sitting on top of all the controllers in your application.
They automatically bind themselves into the controls that you have in your application.
And whenever a bad situation happens an exception for the most prominent example your control read Wise
gets in the way and you can return whatever you want to your users so your users doesn't have to see
such a long list of exceptions stack traces.
All right.
This is not a good API.
This taquerias isn't going to make your clients happy so let's fix that with a controller advise to
do that.
I'm going to create a new package under controller and that package was of course going to be named
as it was in the ED wise package.
I'm going to create a new advise new controller advice and that's going to be product advice because
as you just remember from couple of minutes ago this advice is going to attach itself all the controllers
in our application whether it be a product controller or some other controller you name it it's going
to attach itself so we don't have to do any specific actions for a specific controller.
So let's create our class and move on from there.
In our advice to name it as a controller advise we're going to use of course the controller advice annotation.
And as you can see we have the rest controller advise annotation too.
In our case our application is a restful API application.
So we're going to be using the rest control Redware sanitation.
So let's hit enter and have it in our class right after that what we're going to use as we're going
to use a couple of annotations to annotate the methods that we're going to handle the problems in our
application in our rush controllers so to do that I'm going to start by writing down a method that I
want but before I actually return something and before I actually do anything I should have a data transfer
object so that I can put in my message put in the level of the error and other stuff that I want to
include in in my response so if we're doing that I'm also going to be creating a DTL and I'll go to
my application package and I'll create a package named PTO and this the T-O I'm going to be creating
a message to ETEO and that PTO is going to serve as the response for my problems in my rest API.
So our risk controller advice is going to make use of this message.
ETEO this video is going to be a plain old job object so I'll have a strong message and string type
of course I'm going to have my getters and setters.
So let's create them with command and here we go.
And I'm also going to have a default constructor.
So make sure that our message DTL can be constructed properly.
So I'll have a basic constructor and I'll select none.
If we go we have our message DTL.
So let's switch back to our advice and in our advice I can now start writing down the method that I'm
going to handle the response.
So I'll say public and I'll be returning a message Tio and I'll say process null pointer exception.
All right.
But of course to handle the actual null pointer exception I have to inject that into my method parameters.
So to do that I will say null pointer exception and I'll say exception.
All right.
But you actually have this method as the handler for door crashes in RSA API.
I have to use a couple of annotations and first of the annotations that I'm going to use as the exception
handler annotation as we have here this exception and the annotation is going to be the way that I actually
provide the exception type that I'm going to handle with this method.
So in that case you can handle all the specific exceptions that you have within your application with
different methods that you're going to write.
You don't have to handle everything with a single method.
And in the controller device cases you can handle all the exceptions within a single method because
in that case you're going to be handling the exception rule class and that's not a good practice.
So to handle our null pointer exception I'm going to be providing it to our exception handler annotation.
I'll say null pointer exception class.
All right.
And as I've just said this method is going to be returning a message you and that method Dutilleux is
going to be our responsibility.
So we should also annotate that to this method.
So I'll say response body and what else do we need.
We of course should notify our users that the request is not ok it's bad.
So I'll say that HTP that is that a request is going to be the type of request.
So to our users to our clients I'm going to indicate that the request is bad.
So to do that I'm going to be making use of the response that is annotation.
So let's also say that an
and again this is from spring family and in this response to this annotation I'm going to be saying
that HTP status and that request.
All right.
We'll read it to you.
Create our response.
Sort of create our response.
I'm going to create a new message ETEO
and I'm going to say it's a message and new message to ETEO in our message.
I'm going to set the message as errors found in request try again later.
All right.
And in that type of our error message I'm going to simply say error.
And of course when I'm done I'm going to return our message to the users All right we how handle the
exception within our risk controller.
And actually in all of our controllers with the null pointer exception so let's rerun our application
to see it in action.
Our application is starting up now.
We're almost there and
here we go.
We have our application up and running.
So let's rerun our request again and see what's going to happen.
All right I'm all set and I'm just going to hit send.
Here we go.
We have the message as the message DTL type this time.
As you'll remember from a minute ago we said we're going to return a type of message to ETEO in our
control read wise just as we said here and the method that's going to handle the exception is going
to be named as anything you like.
And in that method we're going to be handling the null pointer exception and we injected that into our
method.
And in our method we created a new message sitio and new POJO a new class that we just created.
And in that class we just have simple properties just like type in message message to indicate the problem
to our user and of course type is to indicate the severity of the problem with the crawler or in this
case the request of the user.
All right let's switch back to our advice and what else we did was we said we're going to be returning
this message the as the body of response.
And we said that with the response by the annotation.
And of course to indicate the process null pointer exception to be a qualifier for the handling these
now point are exceptions.
We said that we're going to be using the exception handler annotation and within that annotation we
were going to be using the null pointer exception class and of course we didn't forget to set the response
status as a request and about requests as within the response headers.
As you can see here with 400 code and if we go to our highlight have again the message is errors found
on requests try again later.
And the type is error just as we sat within our application.
This is a beautiful way to handle exceptions.
And as you can know this within the council you don't have any stacked traces or ugly messages for null
pointer exception or any exception that you can encounter within your application.
Soyou are users going to be facing just the custom messages that you built within your control Redway
says.
Let's say we're a nice way to handle problems within your arrest API with this way again.
You can handle any kind of exceptions that your application is going to throw to your users and you
can even handle the custom exceptions that you throw within your application.
And before we finish the exception handlers the controller advises within our applications.
You should also notice that with them are Lokes.
We're seeing a new statement a new line and that line there is a exception handler exception resolver
and within that statement we're seeing that a new exception handler protected and that detect that exception
handler is the product it was the being that we created.
And that's this way.
All right.
So again to wrap up all you have to do to how a control read wise for your application for your controllers.
You first have to annotate your class as the control read wise and in the API space you're going to
be using the rest control read wise.
But if you're talking about a and b c applications let's say time leave or will also the be or anything
else you're going to be using the simple controller.
Why sanitation.
And after that you provide the exception handler the type of the exception that you're going to handle.
And you also should indicate the type of the response as the body and and of course you should notify
your users about the status of their requests as a bad request or anything you like.
And then you can simply handle the exception which in your application and you should also not forget
to inject the exception within your application within your method.
All right let's switch back to our controller and see what else we can improve within our application.
And of course I'm going to be removing the comments in here so that we can have the previous functionality
without rest API and for a production grade ISAPI you have to be separating your concerns.
What I mean by that is breaking the tight coupling within your API within your controllers or any underclasses
that you have in our case in our controller we have the repository as the coupling because the repository
is everything to our controller.
Without this repository we can't simply take any action.
And the way that we access our repository is not the right way.
This is against the best practices best practices says that your transactions should be separated from
your controllers from all services.
So in our case we should get rid of the Pottruck repository dependency and instead we should abstract
it with a service class and that class should be the handler for all the actions that we're going to
take within our controllers.
So to do that I'm going to be creating a service class and of course for creating our service class.
I'm going to be having a severance package so I'll go to my root package and create our service package
in our service package.
I'm going to be creating a product service all right is product service from now on will serve all the
functionality of my product repository.
So to say that this is an actual service this is a spring been with an application.
We shouldn't annotate it as the service sanitation area.
And what we're going to do in the service class is we're first going to auto wire our repository and
to do that.
I'm going to create a private repository be
and repository.
And of course to Although wire it I'm going to be using a set or injection and I'll create a set for
it and then I'm going to use two other wired annotation.
Here we go.
And to move the functionality from our controller let's take out our controller code and see what we
can do there in our controller and in our first method of the controller which is the get method we
should get rid of the complete line within here and in that line we're simply using the find one method
of our repository.
So it's a very easy migration.
We can just copy that line and we can switch back to our service and we can create the method the repr
method for our repository and that method is going to be
product and get product.
All right.
And within that product method we're going to be taking an ID from the controller.
And of course we should use that ID to get the product that we need.
And in the body of our get product method we're going to be using the return statement and we're going
to be going to our repository.
That's it.
So let's go back to our controller and refactor D and point in our end point we're now going to be using
our service.
So to make use of our service we first have to order it with our controller.
So I'm going to be creating private property here for control for service and I'll say product service
and product service and then I'm going to be all the wiring with a set of injection.
So to do that I'll say setter and I'll provide the product service.
All right.
And of course I should and if they did with all the wired sort when our get Methot what I'm going to
do now is I'll get rid of this line and I'm going to just say product service and get product.
And within that get product method.
I'm going to be providing the ID.
Simple as that.
All right.
We have refactored our first controller and let's go to our second controller in our second controller
the pulse method.
We're simply taking a product from the request body from our user from our applications that makes use
of our ISAPI then we're simply going through repository and saving it so to do that.
I'm going to go to my product service and create a new method and within that method what I should return
is the actual type of the control method which is the product.
In that case I'm going to be returning a product so I'll go back to my service method and I'm going
to say save product.
And of course I'm going to be taking a product from the request body from the controller.
So I'll say product and then what I'm going to do is I'm going to say product repository let's say end
product.
All right let's switch back to our controller and get rid of this product repository and what I will
say is product service that same product.
And in that case our product to say is going to be this object.
All right.
And let's go down to our push method in our math that we have a bit of a long line of actions that we
take.
So let's take out what we can do here.
As the first step of our method of our control or we're trying to find the product within our database
with the find one method and then we're trying to update our product one by one with all the single
properties and then we're going to our repository and trying to save our product to our repository and
otherwise of course we're logging the problems with our code and we're turning a dummy product.
So let's get rid of all that and move it to our service method to do that.
I'm going to go to my service code and provide a new method here and that method is of course going
to be returning back a product and I'll say update product in the update product method.
Of course I'm going to be taking a product object that I'm going to update right.
In the body.
Let's check out what we can do and what we can't underbody Let's try with moving everything to our service
method.
And I'm going to cut everything here and then I'm simply going to paste it.
So let's get rid of our errors within our code.
And as you can see here we missed the ID screen ID from our controller as you can see here.
So we should also take that from our method and to say that I'm going to be putting string ID and then
we can send it to our method later.
And after that we're going to be updating our product.
So to break it convenience here I'm going to update the property name to product to update and then
we have our luggin statement as a problem here.
So I'm just going to comment up for now so we can get back to it and couple of minutes later.
All right.
So what this method does is the almost the exact same thing with our control or method.
So in our control method let's make use of this update product method.
So I'm going to say return product service and update product in our Uplay product.
I'm going to provide product update and of course the ID.
All right.
Simple as that.